Ave Maria this is David how seal with
air Moorea calm and I'm here today with
deacon joseph i tono with the fathers of
mercy who is the founder of family
vocation ministries Deacon how are you
I'm doing well thank you for having me
here thank you for the day we've had
today and providing us and all the other
religious orders that you've had here
today if you could tell us something
about the family vocation ministries and
the family vocation day that that we
just experienced
well I created the family vocation
ministries three years ago or so and
we've had about I'm guessing about 24 of
these vocation days from parish to
parish and it's designed to promote
vocations to the priesthood and the
religious life through sanctification of
families we invite the whole family and
we break out into specific groups into
three groups of men and women and we
actually split up the men and women and
educate them on the universal call to
holiness first and foremost and then
catechized them about vocations to the
priesthood and the religious life we do
that not only to the young adults but to
the parents because we know the families
the seedbed of vocations and if we
educate the parents more the more
they'll support their children they're
the daughter and their son so it's not
so foreign to their children and they
won't be so scared to enter into the
priesthood or the religious life if they
think that God is calling them to that
location but it's it's a great day too
it's a fun day of fun in the sense
obviously it's a day of grace first and
foremost to give glory to God we have
the Holy Sacrifice of the mass
Eucharistic Adoration confessions the
Holy Rosary
but we have talks we eat lunch together
as a family and we network with the
families here as priests and religious
and then we have a short talent show and
question and answer session just to show
our human side nothing out of vainglory
or anything like that but it's really a
design as
- for us to be a witness to the families
to sanctify them and then God willing
we'll have more priests and religious in
the church so that kind of described
this day in the many days that we've had
before and in the future as well so
what's the reasoning between educating
the the groups independently we have
there are many activities that the
families do together but then also the
fathers are spoken to separately and
then the mothers are spoken to
separately and the children are spoken
to separately then they all come
together again for other group
activities what's the reasoning behind
that that's a very good question
the reason initially was because many of
the young men and women they tend to act
differently what when they're with their
parents and if they're with their
parents and you know the vocation is
very is something very personal
obviously God calls you from the depths
of your heart to the priesthood of the
religious life or even to Mary life and
and your parents are someone you grew up
with I mean they they've looked out
after you and they may have their own
opinion on their own their the vocation
that God has calling them - but it's
kind of I guess nerve-racking to have
them beside you who when a priest or
religious is asking the young men and
women to consider joining the priesthood
in the religious life and likewise when
we're telling the parents what to do
morally at home telling them to pray the
rosary together to eat together and and
so forth and so on their children are
there and it's just like if they don't
do it but the parent I mean the children
will look at them like the father or
mother why haven't we been doing this
yet so we don't want to embarrass them
at all but I think it really shows the
independence of the vocation itself it's
a call from God surely the parents
foster it but they don't choose the
vocation to their to their children so
that's why we split them up just it's
good to we all get together from Mass
obviously the prayer of a communion of
the church for adoration and so forth
but for the talks we could keep it that
way I think it'll work out better that
way so ok very good
and the with the entertainment I had
some questions about that you and your
brother who is also a father of Mercy
were breakdancing today and if you could
tell us a little bit about that well we
we we certainly never planned on break
dancing after we entered religious life
we've
we were doing it when we were in I was
in sixth grade he was in fourth grade
it's something we just did as a hobby
growing up but now that we're religious
we're just using it to kind of kind of
to advertise the event to add some
excitement obviously we don't want to
take it anyway away from the mass
adoration confessions family the
catechesis in general but with all
communities we have to have a balance
there must be recreation we can't always
be praying 24 hours a day that we really
have to have some some fun some joy
whether it's in community life playing
sports and so forth so we present this
to the families to know that we are
balanced that it's not like we cry in
the corner all day like some of the
movies tell us but we there's a sense of
joy as long as we have our priorities
straight I think that's important there
are lot of misconceptions on holiness
and on what it means to be called to
holiness and the sort of people that God
calls and he calls he calls people from
all walks of life who from all
backgrounds and and people that can be
that people can identify with from
everywhere so it's a blessed thing was a
beautiful day and and I hope many
vocations do come forth from it so thank
you for all of your work do you thank
you for coming god bless you Ave Maria
Ave Maria this is David Hale seal with
air Moorea com encouraging all families
to pray together for vocations and let's
all together pray for an increase of
vocations in the church for the glory of
God and the vitality of the church god
bless you Ave Maria